---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: Where We Are Currently—A World Running on ANI
datePublished: '2015-11-07T06:40:40.010Z'
dateModified: '2015-11-07T06:40:00.508Z'
title: The biggest risk is not moving anywhere
sourcePath: _posts/2015-11-06-f03e4c04-f00e-4f53-8d5c-f98c29dffbe4.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: f03e4c04-f00e-4f53-8d5c-f98c29dffbe4/index.html
_type: Article

---
### Where We Are Currently---A World Running on ANI

Artificial Narrow Intelligence is machine intelligence that equals or exceeds human intelligence or efficiency at a_specific_thing. A few examples:

* Cars are full of ANI systems, from the computer that figures out when the anti-lock brakes should kick in to the computer that tunes the parameters of the fuel injection systems. Google's[self-driving car][0], which is being tested now, will contain robust ANI systems that allow it to perceive and react to the world around it.
* Your phone is a little ANI factory. When you navigate using your map app, receive tailored music recommendations from Pandora, check tomorrow's weather, talk to Siri, or dozens of other everyday activities, you're using ANI.
* Your email spam filter is a classic type of ANI---it starts off loaded with intelligence about how to figure out what's spam and what's not, and then it learns and tailors its intelligence to you as it gets experience with your particular preferences. The Nest Thermostat does the same thing as it starts to figure out your typical routine and act accordingly.
* You know the whole creepy thing that goes on when you search for a product on Amazon and then you see that as a "recommended for you" product on a_different_site, or when Facebook somehow knows who it makes sense for you to add as a friend? That's a network of ANI systems, working together to inform each other about who you are and what you like and then using that information to decide what to show you. Same goes for Amazon's "People who bought this also bought..." thing---that's an ANI system whose job it is to gather info from the behavior of millions of customers and synthesize that info to cleverly upsell you so you'll buy more things.
* Google Translate is another classic ANI system---impressively good at one narrow task. Voice recognition is another, and there are a bunch of apps that use those two ANIs as a tag team, allowing you to speak a sentence in one language and have the phone spit out the same sentence in another.
* When your plane lands, it's not a human that decides which gate it should go to. Just like it's not a human that determined the price of your ticket.
* The world's best Checkers, Chess, Scrabble, Backgammon, and Othello players are now all ANI systems.
* Google search is one large ANI brain with incredibly sophisticated methods for ranking pages and figuring out what to show you in particular. Same goes for Facebook's Newsfeed.
* And those are just in the consumer world. Sophisticated ANI systems are widely used in sectors and industries like military, manufacturing, and finance (algorithmic high-frequency AI traders account for more than half of equity shares traded on US markets[

Bostrom, [_Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies_][2], loc. 597" data-footnote-backlink-ref="" data-footnote-ref="\#"6][1]), and in expert systems like those that help doctors make diagnoses and, most famously, IBM's[Watson][3], who contained enough facts and understood coy Trebek-speak well enough to soundly beat the most prolific_Jeopardy_champions.

[0]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCCLyNDhxwpqNe3UeEmGHl8g
[1]: http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/01/artificial-intelligence-revolution-1.html
[2]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0199678111/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0199678111&linkCode=as2&tag=wabuwh00-20&linkId=LBOTX2G2R72P5EUA
[3]: http://www.ibm.com/smarterplanet/us/en/ibmwatson/